# **CS3 Q1 End of Lessons Reflections**
## by **Isabel Sofia M. Buban** of **9-Potassium 2029**

***
1. _**List and describe at least 5 topics that we discussed in clss that you know very well.**_
* **JavaScript Operations:** There are 4 main types of operators we discussed. There's arthimetic operators for Mathematical equations (+, -, *, /, %, etc.), comparison operators to compare values (>, <, >=, <=, ==, ===), logical operators typically for operations that will return a Boolean value (&&, ||, !), and assignment operators to assign values to a variable, some of which involving mathematical operations (=, +=, -=, etc.). I think I know this lesson very well because it is straight-forward and general, being used in many different coding languages, including C++.
* **Basic JavaScript Output Statements:** Basic JavaScript statements that we discussed and practiced in class include console.log(), document.write(), and alert(). Again, I find this topic to be a generally simple and easy to understand one. It also really helps that we used them in a lot, maybe all, of our practice exercises.
* **While Loops:** While Loops are one of the simplest types of loop statements. It executes and repeats a block of code as long as it is evaluated as truthy to the given conditional expression.
* **Do-While Loops:** Very similar to While Loops, Do-While Loops execute the block of code at least once, before checking the condition and checking whether or not it should continue. Although it's such a small difference from the While Loops, I think this change helps me a bit to check if the condition I wrote was correct.
* **For-Loops:** For-Loops is another type of loop statement that executes a block of code repeatedly for an indefinite amount of times. I find myself using for-loops often because of its efficiency and generally simple structure.
***
2. _**List at least 5 topics that you know and can describe but needs further practice/discussion and why.**_
* **Nested For-Loops:**  While I understand the basic structure of a for loop--and in fact, it's one of the loop types I use most often--I still find nested for-loops difficult to interpret, especially when there's more to the inner loop than just repeating a single output or something of the sorts.
* **Functions:** Functions are a block of code used to perform a specific task which you can use as many times as you want in your code. Functions also provide for efficiency for a cleaner, more organized code, and I understand how to use them. But I think there's still a lot of things that I can do with functions, and that we practiced in class, that I'm not so familiar with. I think it would help me a lot in future projects if I familiarize myself with these.
* **Arrays:** I know that arrays are used to store and access multiple values into one variable, and I know the basics on how to use, set up, and access them. But similar to functions, I think there are still some ways to use arrays that I do not fully understand yet.
* **Output checking:** When there are lots of lines of codes, and lots of connecting to do, I often find figuring out the output of the code difficult.
* **Switch Statements:** Switch statements are like another easier, more organized way of if-else statements based on the value of a single variable or expression. I know what it is, but sometimes, I might forget even the basic structure or even a single line like the "break" one, which could possibly affect the code as a whole.
* **Basic Data Validation:** Sometimes, changes or extra steps need to be made for variables to be used properly in codes. While I'm aware of that, I'm still not aware of most of the said steps, and I think I need more practice to familiarize myself with these.
***
3. _**Describe on what will be your plan of action in order to help yourself in understanding further the topics listed on the second items.**_
As the first quarter finishes, we begin to move towards the next with our newly found project partners. To make a website is something that requires a lot of skill and practice, but we still plan to do the best that we can. And as we do, I also hope to be able to study in more detail these topics that I do not quite understand yet, and hopefully familiarize myself with them so as to carry them with me in the following years. I will watch videos, read about them online, and read through our CS3 KHub materials--anything to learn and make the best I can out of it.
***
4. _**In the activities that were done in class, list at least two that you think were effective and at least two that you think not effective in helping you understand topics in our course and why.**_
* **Effective:** _(1) Q1 1st Graded Activity:_ I think this activity was a fun, effective activity that allowed us to be able to explore HTML features and tags at our own pace. _(2) Sir Roy's Digital Garden Activities:_ Most of these links that Sir sends have a detailed explanation of the topic/parts used, as well as an activity at the end of each part for us to apply what we learned immediately after :3 Thanks Sir !!!!
* **Not Effective:** (1) Any activities that required us to simply copy-paste the template, which already contained majority of the code with little to no explanation for the parts used. An example of this, I'd say, is the 7th Graded Exercise. (2) Activities/practices done live in class. I find it hard to follow along and take note of every explanation when we're doing it at a rather fast pace.
